so at a high level ceramic is a dynamic
information management protocol
for the open web and really when we were
designing ceramic we really thought
about
um you know like why sort of
the you know file or content management
systems are
are broken today and that's either
because they're hosted on tv or server
or sort of their static files that live
somewhere on the decentralized web
and so um we basically wanted to create
a new model
uh for content which we're calling smart
documents and it's all completely built
peer-to-peer and so what smart documents
do are
really moves content beyond databases
and static files
so you can basically turn your files
into dynamic objects that
get a permalink that never changes they
have
verifiable versions so you can update
these files
completely permissionlessly you can give
them each
each file its own capability set and
logic
so you can do cool things like you know
define the rules that govern
what constitutes a valid update to that
content um
in really dynamic and interesting ways
which i'll jump into
um it also opens up unlimited
collaboration
and sort of incomposability um that
we're sort of
used to as a as it relates to
blockchains in web3
but you can access a global network of
interoperable information where you can
openly discover
query and share documents across
applications and contexts
and lastly you get improved security and
trust so you can really guarantee the
state of your document to others in a
completely transparent
and decentralized way um and so state
management is something that that's
really been
what we've been trying to get to with
the notion of smart documents how can we
build a state management system or a
version control system for content that
lives completely decentralized
um but that can be customizable
and so uh some of the features of of
smart documents
sort of some of them i've covered uh at
a high level but basically
every document is identified by a
permalink and it never changes
um each document gets verifiable
versions that can be explicitly
referenced
so you can reference you know a doc id
and you get the latest state of a
document
or you can reference a doc id with a
with sort of a query version parameter
and you get only that explicit version
as it was at that point in time and
every document can be defined by a
schema so the protocol can actually
enforce
if you set a schema to be some json
schema for example
all content that's written to that
document has to conform to the schema or
the protocol will reject it
you can configure each document so each
individual bit of content
you can choose where to persist your
content which can be
um you know like filecoin for example
or a sql server you can choose which
blockchain to use for your timestamps
and timestamps are actually what we use
to
explicitly form versions and so you can
choose to anchor those updates on
ethereum
um bitcoin any other blockchain platform
um and you can configure privacy
settings so you can basically
encrypt documents and whole in part just
records sort of however you want
and you can manage the sharing of that
if private and lastly logic
so you can basically define
a set of rules that
enforce the update behavior of your
documents you could say
my document can only be updated if the
owner updates it or all of the owners
update it or one of the owners updates
it or
you can even write scripts that say
automatically update this document if
the state of document b changes and
update this document to reflect that
so you can really start to code content
and program content
um in a new way completely
permissionlessly
and also documents can emit events that
cause other things to happen
such as a node you know pinning your
image content or persisting at the file
point
um touching back on composability that
we covered so
um really what this you know network of
verifiable programmable information
allows is
um you know all this information can be
trusted the state of content
is auditable and transparent and so
anyone can use any
document and content on the network
particularly if it's public
by just querying nodes for it you know
documents can link other documents to
create
chains or mappings of linked content so
you can form document graphs
and each document to some extent already
does this because a schema for example
is defined as a ceramic document
and then you reference that schema in
the document you're creating saying this
document is going to conform to the
schema
and so each document already is just a
mapping of two a schema and a document
but you can then map actual documents
together which i'll go into
um and aggregations so
you know for example if you wanted to
build a decentralized um
logging platform or commenting system on
ceramic you could basically have each
user individually
post their own con their own comments to
their own document
and have another document that just runs
a script that listens to all the
documents with a specific tag or
something
and it will just aggregate that up into
one script
um and last and integrations
so it kind of ceramic is really this
rules
and content management engine that
exists on top of a bunch of other
technologies so
identity every document on ceramic is
authored by a did
and dids can be key and network agnostic
so you have a did which is a
decentralized identifier
and it can be controlled by keys from
any blockchain
uh or multiple keys for multiple
blockchains and so you know you can
control your same did with your ethereum
key
your file coin key your bitcoin key your
cosmos key et cetera
and that really makes content
interoperable because
now you can look up that bitcoin key or
that ethereum key
file coin key resolve the did and then
resolve its content
and so you're not actually locking
content into any particular network
because ceramics sort of forms this meta
document infrastructure on top of
existing systems
um yeah like i mentioned storage you
just in a ceramic node you can plug in a
persistence provider
and that can be filecoin um you know we
got a grant from filecoin to
both integrate filecoin keys with the
did for identity
and integrate uh filecoin persistence as
an option to a ceramic node
so you can actually persist your content
in a decentralized way um or if you're
already using centralized servers you
can do that too it
obviously offers different guarantees
about the documents that are
persisted that way but the protocol is
sort of agnostic to persistence
um compute if you have documents that
run scripts you can invoke code that
lives on a server somewhere or anywhere
else
and lastly you can plug in any
blockchain for anchoring
and i just covered a lot of this but
i'll just focus in on
some of the ipfs pieces so um sort of
separated from the file coin persistence
how we actually use
the ipfs stack is that every record in a
document so document consists of a chain
of records they're all ipld
objects um and we use lib p2p to sync
updates
around the nodes in the network so it's
a gossip network
where you know one node can manage the
state of a document and others can
can gossip about it and also replicate
it if they want
um the network the interesting thing
here with ceramic is unlike blockchains
there's no global state so instead we
opted for
doc state so there's only state per
document and they form doc chains
because you have a series of records
that are anchored but there's no
global state between documents so you
know in the same way as
uh ipfs works if you don't persist your
content to file coin
or you're the only node running that
document and you
shut your computer off or you delete
that content like it can be gone
because the the doc state is only
maintained as long as the network
maintains it
and this provides scale um because
content there will be so much content in
the world that
you can't run a global state machine on
that and so
this allows ceramic to be run and really
resource constrained environments
such as browsers and other things
without a bunch of other layers built on
top
and i covered a lot of this stuff
already but interestingly if you look at
the diagram like
different nodes which are the triangles
can run different configurations so one
is running
bitcoin and ethereum anchoring and uh
lid p2p and ipld and other ones just
running bitcoin anchoring
other ones just running ethereum
anchoring and there's an overlap
in that but there's no global state uh
how documents work really quickly so you
have um
you know a series of records there's a
genesis record then it gets anchored on
a blockchain
then you submit one or multiple signed
records then it gets anchored on a
blockchain and you get an explicit new
version
and then a couple more update records
happen and then you get a new anchor
which forms a new version
um and because we use blockchains for
anchoring we can do
thing we can guarantee the state at
versions and so this
is really important for decentralized
key management uh and trusted content
where
you know if i remove an owner from a
document i don't want that owner to be
able to update that document and no
amount of
subjectivity and consensus is allowed in
that case
and so we have strict ordering with
blockchain and earliest anchor wins
and doctypes are really the rules engine
for each document when you're creating a
document you specify the doctype
three doctypes come out of the box with
the node uh you can also just write your
own which people are already doing but
tiles are just json stores you can store
any arbitrary json content in there
great for schemas things like profiles
like blog posts
messages um three id is a did sys
is a did method native to ceramic so a
decentralized identity system
with secure key rotation uh account
links are documents which link your did
to
on-chain cryptographic accounts or
network accounts somewhere else
and writing your own we already have
people in the community writing
verifiable claims doctype so you can
create and verify claims according to
the w3c standard for those
and also someone's working on a script
doctype as part of hack fs
actually both of these are part of hack
fs um and
the script doctype is doing the
aggregation that i talked about before
so you could build a commenting system
that one document is aggregating all the
the contents of a whole bunch of
documents owned by the users themselves
um it's available as a full javascript
client or you can use it over an http
api
um both apis are exactly the same um
so sort of like ipfs would work um
and some things being built on top so um
we recently have been doing a bunch of
standards work around identity on
ceramic because ceramic is really
uh a great platform for not only
managing decentralized identifiers but
when you think about identity and
what that needs to be in the
decentralized web identity
really is an index of all of your
resources whether those are your
profiles
or your peer-to-peer databases that live
on a server
somewhere such as textile databases or
orbit databases
or your files stored on filecoin
or your social graph that might live
somewhere or various other things and so
right now in the decentralized
web there's no single place to query and
discover
all of the resources associated with a
given identity and these resources exist
across all sorts of platforms and so idx
aims to solve that
and like i said it's fully interoperable
with any blockchain and
any storage system um but it forms this
mechanism for discoverability
uh this is the architecture of what it
looks like
and each of these boxes are ceramic
documents so you have a did
it could be any did and it points to the
root index document which just contains
mappings from like profiles
to the profiles index which is its own
document and in the profiles index you
might find
mappings from basic to uh location which
may be a ceramic dock id
for the basic profile of that did
interestingly
uh in collections are sort of your
aggregations of user data
usually created by an application and so
those are defined by
a definition which consists of a set
of data stores with explicit schemas to
say i'm using a textile thread and it
uses this schema and i'm using an orbit
store and it uses the schema
and a ceramic document that uses the
schema let's say your app consists of
those three data sources
you define that in a definition which
gets stored in the collections index and
that maps to
a reference which contains user specific
information about that definition so
my textile thread id is this and it
lives at this hosted service endpoint
and my access controller is this
and so really if you look up a did you
can find its root index you can find its
collections and then you can find
all of the data related to that given
application
with the user still being able to manage
consent of it and the
the projects on the right are already
working on integrations with idx
um so textile for their hub and for
their threads db
fleek is building a new product where
they need identity management in a
decentralized way and they're using
idx for collections as well and all
sorts of things like team formation
usernames
and owl is doing something similar but a
little different
so a bunch of great ipfs projects and
ecosystem already building on it
i won't go into all of these because i
know i'm running short on time but
obviously content and information that
needs to be trusted
and programmable or abide by a set of
rules
there's really almost no limit to what
you can build on it
and so here's a couple examples
timeline alpha devnet is available now
you can start playing with ceramic
already clay will come out in a month
it has just some improvements to it
including the use of dag jose which is a
new standard for signing and encryption
for json web that we got a grant from
ipfs and ethereum to build uh we're
doing that along with textile the go
or the js implementation is already
ready um we're looking for someone to
build the go implementation so
if you're interested in this uh please
reach out we're looking to
to hire someone to to write that go
version
and mainnet will come out and mid q4
here are some resources our discord is
there
i'll also drop a like a link to it in
the chat because i know it's not human
readable
um find us on twitter we're on ceramic
network on github
and a lot of the standards i talked
about including doctypes
schemas idx and all sorts of things are
being
written out as cip so they can be reused
and shared by the community
in a collaborative way so if that's
interesting to you please
take a look around and contribute